---
layout: post
title:  "Spook is pleased to welcome VAX to its growing list of OmniWatch users"
blurb: "OmniWatch is an award winning IT Environmental and Power Monitoring Service and is installed within VAX's UK headquarters in West Midlands."
page-description: "OmniWatch is an award winning IT Environmental and Power Monitoring Service and is installed within VAX's UK headquarters in West Midlands."
image: /images/blog/vax-omniwatch/vax-hoover.jpg
permalink: /blog/spook-welcomes-vax-to-omniwatch/
date:   2019-09-12 10:27:49 +0000
published: 1
---

<blockquote>
<p>We installed Spook OmniWatch in our server rooms at our UK headquarters. Within a few weeks of being installed we detected a leak from the AC units that caused a water alert. Literally just one drip that was taking hours to build up but if this had gone un-noticed either the AC units would have failed or water ingress could have caused a bigger problem.</p>
<p>The AC units have been serviced and there hasn’t been any alerts since. It’s great to see the Spook equipment and alerts working as intended, giving us valuable advanced warnings in order for us to take remedial action and fix the problems at source.</p>
<p><small>Vax UK Ltd, a global world leader in electrical goods and cleaning products in the floor-care and air treatment sectors.</small></p>
</blockquote>


## Spook OmniWatch

OmniWatch is an award winning IT Environmental and Power Monitoring Service and is installed across two locations and in three server rooms at Vax’s UK headquarters in Droitwich, West Midlands. 

This enables Vax to centrally monitor critical IT environments and IT power consumption within its server rooms. In addition to monitoring environmental conditions, key power metrics from UPS systems are also covered.

## Vax history

Vax was founded in 1977 by British entrepreneur, Alan Brazier, in his home town of Droitwich, Worcestershire. After winning a contract to clean Newport Pagnell service station he soon realised that the carpet cleaning equipment available at that time needed improvement. So he set to work on his first prototype. The forerunner to Vax's iconic orange tub, it was made with a water heater, a shower pump and a milk churn.

After some time spent honing his design, he created a unique three-in-one machine that could wash, suck up spills, and vacuum carpets. He patented his invention and decided to manufacture it himself. The Vax 101 was truly innovative for its time and became the best-selling vacuum cleaner in the UK in less than 8 years.

## A global market leader

After cleaning up the UK market, Vax started to take its business overseas. By 1995 Vax was available in nearly 50 different countries. In 1999 Vax became part of the TTI group, a global market and innovation leader in power tools, floorcare, laser and electronic products.

TTI and its resources helped Vax to rapidly extend its scope. While production moved overseas, Vax's design and engineering team remain in the Midlands, developing new technologies and making continual improvements. Over the years the Vax range expanded to include upright carpet washers, multi-cyclonic bagless vacuum cleaners, steam cleaners, handhelds, air purifiers and much more besides.

Contact us to find out more.

Spook Limited, Award Winning Multi Vendor IT monitoring Specialists

[https://spook.co.uk](https://spook.co.uk)

+44 (0) 1737 906111 or enquiries@spook.co.uk

